README.md, before:

# cyoa

A scripting language, runtime, and HTTP server for choose-your-own-adventure style interactive fiction, written in Rust.

## usage

To start the server, run:

```rust
cargo run -- --source path/to/story.cyoa [--port 8080]
```

Or run the binary directly:

```bash
./cyoa --source path/to/story.cyoa [--port 8080]
```

If no port is specified, the server will choose a random available port.
The port number is written to `port.json`.
A client can then interact with the story by sending HTTP requests to the server.

## api

The server supports multiple independent sessions. Each client creates its own session and receives a session ID to use in subsequent requests.

- `POST /session`: create a new session, starting at the beginning of the story
    - Response format:
    ```json
    {
        "session_id": "550e8400-e29b-41d4-a716-446655440000"
    }
    ```
- `GET /session/{session_id}/current`: returns the current node for the given session (text + available choices + whether the story is over)
    - Response format:
    ```json
    {
        "display_text": "Narration text to be displayed to the user.",
        "choices": [
            {
                "display_text": "Text to be displayed for this choice.",
                "id": "The ID of this choice"
            }
        ],
        "game_over": false
    }
    ```
- `POST /session/{session_id}/choose/{choice_id}`: advance the story for the given session by selecting the choice with the given ID

## story format

Stories are written in `.cyoa` files:

```
SET name "my friend"
SET x 0

= START
    "Hello, {name}! Left or right?"
    "Go left." -> left_path
    [IF x > 0] "Go right." -> right_path

= left_path
    "You went left."
    "Go back." -> START [THEN x = 1]

= right_path
    "You went right."
```

Notes:

- `SET`: define a variable
- `= name`: define a scene
- `"text"`: narration or choice string
    - Every scene must have a narration string
    - Zero or more choices may then follow, each with a string and a target scene. If no choices are given, the story ends after the narration.
    - `[IF expr]`: conditionally show a choice if a given expression is true
        - Expressions can use variables, literals, and basic operators (`=` for equality, `!=` for inequality, `>` and `<` for comparisons)
    - `[THEN expr]`: run a side effect when a choice is taken
- `{var}`: interpolate a variable into text

Commit message:

more cli control and fixed clearing expired sessions

README.md, after:

# cyoa

A scripting language, runtime, and HTTP server for choose-your-own-adventure style interactive fiction, written in Rust.

## usage

To start the server, run:

```rust
cargo run -- --source path/to/story.cyoa [--port 8080] [--prefix /api] [--session_timeout_hours 12]
```

Or run the binary directly:

```bash
cyoa --source path/to/story.cyoa [--port 8080] [--prefix /api] [--session_timeout_hours 12]
```

If no port is specified, the server will choose a random available port.
The port number is written to `port.json`.
A client can then interact with the story by sending HTTP requests to the server.

If no prefix is specified, the server will listen on the root path (`/`). Otherwise, it will listen on the given prefix (e.g. `/api`), and all endpoints described below will be relative to that prefix.

If no session timeout is specified, sessions will expire 24 hours after their last activity. Sessions do not automatically expire, you must send periodic POST requests to `/clear_expired_sessions` to clear them.

## api

Run `cyoa --help` to see all available command line options.

The server supports multiple independent sessions. Each client creates its own session and receives a session ID to use in subsequent requests.

- `POST /session`: create a new session, starting at the beginning of the story
    - Response format:
    ```json
    {
        "session_id": "550e8400-e29b-41d4-a716-446655440000"
    }
    ```
- `GET /session/{session_id}/current`: returns the current node for the given session (text + available choices + whether the story is over)
    - Response format:
    ```json
    {
        "display_text": "Narration text to be displayed to the user.",
        "choices": [
            {
                "display_text": "Text to be displayed for this choice.",
                "id": "The ID of this choice"
            }
        ],
        "game_over": false
    }
    ```
- `POST /session/{session_id}/choose/{choice_id}`: advance the story for the given session by selecting the choice with the given ID
- `POST /clear_expired_sessions`: clear all sessions that have been inactive for longer than the session timeout duration

## story format

Stories are written in `.cyoa` files:

```
SET name "my friend"
SET x 0

= START
    "Hello, {name}! Left or right?"
    "Go left." -> left_path
    [IF x > 0] "Go right." -> right_path

= left_path
    "You went left."
    "Go back." -> START [THEN x = 1]

= right_path
    "You went right."
```

Notes:

- `SET`: define a variable
- `= name`: define a scene
- `"text"`: narration or choice string
    - Every scene must have a narration string
    - Zero or more choices may then follow, each with a string and a target scene. If no choices are given, the story ends after the narration.
    - `[IF expr]`: conditionally show a choice if a given expression is true
        - Expressions can use variables, literals, and basic operators (`=` for equality, `!=` for inequality, `>` and `<` for comparisons)
    - `[THEN expr]`: run a side effect when a choice is taken
- `{var}`: interpolate a variable into text
